+++
abstract = "This paper presents a new programming paradigm named Notification Oriented Paradigm (NOP) and analyses performance aspects of NOP programs by means of an experiment. NOP provides a new manner to conceive, structure, and execute software, which allows better performance, causal-knowledge organization, and entity decoupling than standard solutions based upon current paradigms. These paradigms are essentially Imperative Paradigm (IP) and Declarative Paradigm (DP). In short, DP solutions are considered easier to use than IP solutions thanks to the concept of high-level programming. However, they are considered slower to execute and lesser flexible to program than IP. Anyway, both paradigms present similar drawbacks like causal-evaluation redundancies and strongly coupled entities, which decrease software performance and processing distribution feasibility. These problems exist due to an orientation to monolithic inference mechanism based upon sequential evaluation by means of searches over passive computational entities. NOP proposes another manner to structure software and make its inferences, which is based upon small, smart, and decoupled collaborative entities whose interaction happen by means of precise notifications. This paper discusses NOP as a paradigm and presents certain comparison of NOP against IP. Actually, performance is evaluated by means of IP and NOP programs with respect to a same application, which allow demonstrating NOP superiority."
abstract_short = ""
authors = ["Jean M. Simão", "Cesar A. Tacla", "Paulo C. Stadzisz", "Roni F. Banaszewski"]
date = "2012-06-05"
image = ""
image_preview = ""
math = true
publication_types = ["2"]
publication = "Journal of Software Engineering and Applications - JSEA"
publication_short = ""
selected = false
title = "Notification Oriented Paradigm (NOP) and Imperative Paradigm: A Comparative Study"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = "http://www.scirp.org/journal/PaperInformation.aspx?PaperID=19842"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

+++
